Feature/http refit (#151)
marcduiker/azure-functions-university: lessons/dotnet6/http-refit/README.md

# Calling third-party REST APIs (.NET 6)

## Goal 🎯

> The goal of this lesson is to show how to call third-party REST APIs while using best practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of this lesson is to show how to call third-party REST APIs from your functions using dependency injection and Refit, a type safe REST library.

```

> Calling REST APIs usually involves the well-known [HttpClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/fr-fr/dotnet/api/system.net.http.httpclient?view=net-6.0) .NET class. However, using this class effectively has always been a challenge as it is designed to be instantiated once and reused troughout the life of your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling REST APIs usually involves the well-known [HttpClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.net.http.httpclient?view=net-6.0) .NET class. However, using this class effectively has always been a challenge as it is designed to be instantiated once and reused throughout the life of your application.

```

> Starting from .NET Core 2.1, the BCL [introduced a set of changes](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/microservices/implement-resilient-applications/use-httpclientfactory-to-implement-resilient-http-requests) designed to make `HttpClient` easier to use in a correct and efficient manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from .NET Core 2.1, the base class library [introduced a set of changes](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/microservices/implement-resilient-applications/use-httpclientfactory-to-implement-resilient-http-requests) designed to make `HttpClient` easier to use in a correct and efficient manner.

```

This lesson consists of the following exercises:

|Nr|Exercise
|-|-
|0|[Prerequisites](#0-prerequisites)
|1|[Cleaning up the source code](#1-cleaning-up-the-source-code)
|2|[Defining a third-party REST API](#2-defining-a-third-party-rest-api)
|3|[Adding custom API parameters](#3-adding-custom-api-parameters)
|4|[Homework](#4-homework)
|5|[More info](#5-more-info)

> 📝 **Tip** - If you're stuck at any point you can have a look at the [source code](../../../src/dotnet6/http-refit/AzFuncUni.Http) in this repository.

---

## 0. Prerequisites

> This lesson builds on the [HTTP Trigger (.NET 6)](../http/README.md) lesson. Please, make sure to complete that lesson first.

Reviewer: Instead of building on the existing HTTP lesson and removing code from it, I suggest we start with a new project, add an HTTP trigger function and include a code snippet (which is the implementation of exercise 4 of the HTTP lesson) here in the markdown to replace the template code of the HTTP trigger function. This is a bit safer, so the two lessons can be independently changed. 

So the prerequisites to this lesson are the same as the HTTP lesson. You can definitely refer to the HTTP lesson if people are unfamiliar with HTTP triggers but don't mention any specifics from that lesson.

> ## 1. Cleaning up the source code

Reviewer: Exercise 1 can be about creating the new project with the HTTP trigger implementation that is equal to the HTTP lesson, exercise 4. Use a code snippet here that people can copy/paste to replace the template HTTP function. The goal description could be something like: _The goal is to create an HTTP trigger function that serves as the base for the next exercises._

Author: I reproduced more or less exercise \#1 from the HTTP trigger lesson and adapted the code accordingly.

First, remove the `HelloWorldHttpTrigger5.cs`, `HelloWorldHttpTrigger6.cs` and `Person.cs` files and only leave the `HelloWorldHttpTrigger.cs` source code file as well as the source code files generated by the project template.

This is the state you reached when completing step 4 of the previous lesson.

> |File|Description

Reviewer: I think this table can be removed, this info is covered already in the HTTP lesson itself. Instead you can instruct the user to run the HTTP function to check if the 'starting point function' is working as intended.

    /// </summary>
    public interface IHttpBinOrgApi
    {
        [Get("/status/{code}")]
        Task<HttpContent> StatusCodes(int code);
    
        [Post("/post")]
        Task<HttpContent> GetRequest();
    }
    ```

    > 🔎 **Observation** - The [Httpbin.org](http://httpbin.org/) API defines a complete set of operations. In this excercise, we only surface a couple of operations. The resulting interface can be expanded further as you need more operations.

3. In `Program.cs`, let’s add a constant to hold the [Httpbin.org](http://httpbin.org/) API endpoint:

    ```csharp
    private const string HttpBinOrgApiHost = "http://httpbin.org";
    ```

4. In `Program.cs`, add the following code:

    ```csharp
    private static void ConfigureServices(HostBuilderContext builder, IServiceCollection services)
    {
        services
            .AddHttpClient("HttpBinOrgApi", (provider, client) =>
            {
                client.BaseAddress = new System.Uri(HttpBinOrgApiHost);
                client.DefaultRequestHeaders.Add("Accept", "application/json");
                client.DefaultRequestHeaders.Add("User-Agent", "dotnet/6.0");
            })

>             .AddTypedClient(c => RestService.For<IHttpBinOrgApi>(c))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            .AddTypedClient(c => RestService.For<IHttpBinOrgApi>(c));
```

>             ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

9. Likewise, the [Httpbin.org](http://httpbin.org/) API’s `POST /post` operation also accepts any arbitrary HTTP body. Just add a simple `Stream` parameter to the `IHttpBinOrgApi.GetRequest()` method to support this scenario.

    ```csharp
    [Post("/post")]
    Task<GetRequestResponse> GetRequest(Stream content = null, [Query] IDictionary<string, string> query = default);
    ```

10. The `Stream` type is available in the `System.IO` namespace. Make sure to add a using directive to the top of the file.

    ```csharp
    using System.IO;
    ```

12. In `HelloWorldHttpTrigger.cs` relay the contents of the incoming HTTP request to the [Httpbin.org](http://httpbin.org/) API.

    ```csharp
    var result = _client.GetRequest(req.Body, query: queryStrings);
    ```

## 4. Homework

Deploy the function to Azure and test that it behaves as you would expect.

> 📝 **Tip** - Once deployed to Azure, the function endpoint is now `https` and a mandatory *function key* must be specified as a query string parameter. Please, make sure to update your HTTP requests accordingly.

## 5. More info

> - [Use IHttpClientFactory to implement resilient HTTP requests](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/microservices/implement-resilient-applications/use-httpclientfactory-to-implement-resilient-http-requests)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Use IHttpClientFactory to implement resilient HTTP requests](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/architecture/microservices/implement-resilient-applications/use-httpclientfactory-to-implement-resilient-http-requests)

```
